I don’t know the exact figures, but in my experience, I’d say that 8 out of 10 web developers not using one of Microsoft’s programming languages use a MacBook Pro. I do live in Austin and all the developers I know except for two use Macs. I’ve heard other developers in podcasts mention their MacBook Pros as well and they were not in Austin so I feel safe assuming there is some legitimacy to my feelings. Now obviously, if you develop C#, .NET, F#, etc then you will probably own a laptop running Windows. I do occasionally run into a straight JavaScript developer that prefers Windows, but that is pretty rare.

I don’t own a MacBook Pro and I never will! I also don‘t mess with Windows as the idea of running antivirus and using Microsoft’s terrible terminal is very unappealing to me. I’m a Linux guy! No no, don’t click away just yet! Lemme tell you why I continue to love Linux and prove that it can be the perfect OS for any developer. If you‘ve never used it as a desktop OS then you probably have heard horror stories about how difficult it is to keep running. That is a thing of the past! Linux is a fantastic desktop OS with a ton of great software that gets easier for the non-initiated to grasp with each release.

## A Little Backstory

My first experience writing code was on an old Apple IIC. My uncle gave me that computer with a ton of 5.25” floppies loaded with games and software and a stack of magazines about computers. At first, I thought “Ooh, a new way to play games!”, but that eventually got old and I wanted something else to do. One day I flipped through one of those magazines and saw some screenshots of a game. I figured out that the code for that game was in the magazine. All I had to do was figure out how to get to where I could copy that code over and I could save this game to disk and play it whenever I wanted. Free games! After some trial and error, I figured it out and before I knew it I was playing a terrible text-based game that was basically Battleship except with water balloons. I continued to enter the code for more games, some of which had graphics and could be played with a joystick. After several weekends of coding out games, I was comfortable enough to try to tinker. I resized elements, changed colors, and even created new stages. This was my informal introduction to programming in the BASIC programming language, and an Apple computer enabled was responsible for it.
My teenage years hit, and I ignored that old computer. Then my high school offered some programming classes. I immediately signed up thinking I would be a pro. While my experience may have helped me a little with that class, it wasn’t by much considering I was now learning how to write C++ on a PC running Windows NT. What a different experience! I took every programming class my high school offered and even began college as a computer science major where I continued writing C++. That early experience writing BASIC on a Mac no longer seemed that important and PCs seemed like the future to me. It was about this time that another uncle became successful in starting a software company. This uncle told me to learn Visual Basic as he thought it was the future. I figured he must have known what he was talking about so I learned VB in my spare time. It seemed evident to me that Apple computers were for casual users and PCs were for folks that wanted to get something done.

The following years I kind of abandoned programming while I pursued a career in music. I was a big believer in pursuing my passion so to not have any regrets later in life. I occasionally got a new computer here and there, but it was always a cheap PC of sorts and I used it mostly to surf the web and make flyers. After several years of this pursuit, I began to feel like I should “become an adult” and figure out what plan B was so I wasn‘t working a low-paying job the rest of my life. I gravitated back to technology, but this time I chose to study for some desktop technician and network engineering certifications. I didn’t finish college and had little desire to go back, but these certifications were cheap and something I could accomplish on my own time with nothing more than some books. Several years passed and the day finally came where I could use my newly found knowledge. I went to work for IBM as a support technician. If you’ve ever worked a corporate job before, I was basically the IT guy that was always walking around fixing anything and everything that was connected to the network.

I worked that IT job for almost six years. During that time I noticed that certain types of tickets showed up frequently. I thought I should find a way to automate those tasks to make my life easier. After some googling, I realized that I needed to be writing shell scripts and VB scripts to fix these issues for me. Before I knew it, I had folders full of batch and VB scripts to solve a whole array of problems remotely. This eventually led to me learning how to create a desktop application to give an interface to this collection of scripts. Once my boss found out that my crazy level of productivity was because of an application I wrote, he sent word up the chain and I was eventually asked to write documentation on the app, create an installer, and share it with my team. Now I was being encouraged to write code as part of my job and I still saw no practical use for a Mac in my life.

During this time, I had a friend that wanted to get all the CISCO certifications he could get his hands on. He had just become a father and my wife and I just became parents too. Couple the new experience of parenthood with the love for technology and we ended up hanging out quite a bit. He showed my Ubuntu 8.04 one day while I was at his house. I had heard of Linux and loosely knew what it was, but now I was seeing that it was much more advanced than I thought and a viable option as an OS. I was very interested! I went home, burned an installation disc, and installed Ubuntu on an extra desktop I had lying around. Before I knew it, I was trying different distributions of Linux and installing Ubuntu on other people’s computers telling them it was a safer, more secure option for them and was easy to use. It also breathed life into old computers that struggled to run newer versions of Windows. At this point, I was content using older hardware and thought “People that spend tons of money on computers are either hardcore gamers or suckers.” Spoiler alert, I still feel that way to some extent! I became a Linux fanboy.

I kind of hit cruise control for a few years. At some point, it became glaringly obvious to me that my team and my position were in danger of being replaced by thin clients and the fact that the client I was supporting was restructuring their own internal IT teams. We were expensive to have walking around on all their sites and they wanted to lower the bottom line. I freaked out a bit as I was making a respectable wage in this role, especially for the small Texas city I was living in that had an insanely low cost of living. After considering many options for a new career and even considering moving to different cities to continue my IT career, I realized that I had been writing a lot of code and enjoyed it. I did some research and found a few boot camps to get into web development. I thought since I enjoyed writing code and had made a few websites in the past for some side money, it made total sense for me to go to a boot camp and get familiar with modern web technologies. I applied, did a few interviews, was accepted to MakerSquare (now called Galvanize), and started to plan how to get this done. I sold off half of what I owned, moved my wife and kiddo in with my dad, threw the rest of what I owned into storage, and was just about ready to leave. There was one problem; MakerSquare told me to bring a Mac! WTF! Seriously? I spoke with them and found out that I could also bring a laptop running Linux, but I would get no Linux specific support if I had any problems installing dependencies or setting up dev environments. Well, I was an arrogant IT master at this point so I wasn‘t too concerned. My laptop was already running Ubuntu so I was good to go. Still, I was blown away to learn that so many web developers used Mac. What was I getting myself into?﻿

Fast forward 5 years and I have used all 3 operating systems in a professional environment as a web developer. Currently, I have a MacBook Pro that my employer issued to me. At home, my personal laptop and several other computers I have are running Ubuntu, but I also have an older laptop running Windows 10 and a Mac Mini running Mojave. Ubuntu is always my go-to, but I have a Windows machine around for the rare occasion that Windows is needed for something. My Mac Mini is used mostly for recording guitar and drums and printing custom covers for the games cases I use to store my video games. The point is, I have a lot of experience with all three operating systems now, but Linux is still my first choice.

## So Why Do I Prefer Linux?

There are a lot of reasons I prefer Linux. My intentions here are to list off some of these reasons with a little bit of additional info explaining my position. Also, I hope to let more people know what Linux has to offer. It’s not the archaic, super advanced beast that so many people think it is. Desktop Linux distributions have come a very long way over the years and should be considered by more people in my opinion.

### It is more secure.

The basic architecture of Linux lends itself to better security. There is no registry, like in Windows, to be corrupted by malicious software. For a piece of software to access anything in your filesystem, it must ask for your root password. If you didn‘t run something that should be asking for your password, don’t enter your password. Simple. It does have a firewall and even antivirus software that can be installed and, while not that necessary for most people, all of it is free. Plus, since there aren‘t a lot of people using Linux, it isn’t targeted by hackers in the first place. I’m not going to lie and tell you that Linux is bulletproof, but it is arguably the most secure operating system you can run.

### It is open source.