Navigating the landscape of JavaScript frameworks can be a little daunting. There is a lot to choose from and a lot to take into consideration when choosing a framework for a project. Everyone seems to have an opinion on this topic as they are entitled to have, but today I will share my opinion for what it is worth.

## The Big 3

If you have been developing in JavaScript for any significant amount of time, then you know that the main three frameworks people talk about are <a href="https://reactjs.org/" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">React</a>, <a href="https://angular.io/" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">Angular</a>, & <a href="https://vuejs.org/" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">Vue</a>. They are all fantastic frameworks with large feature sets written by incredibly intelligent people that make your development process faster and easier. They all also have one main problem; fanboys/fangirls/fan-people. If you read blogs, listen to podcasts, or even just socialize with other developers, you are destined to hear a bunch of enthusiastic, heavily opinionated chatter about each of these.

There are other fantastic frameworks out there which you should not ignore. <a href="https://emberjs.com/" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">Ember</a>, for example, has a respectable user base and enthusiastic community surrounding it. For the sake of brevity and addressing the masses, I will stick to talking about the "big 3" in this post. I am also really only familiar enough with these three to speak somewhat intelligently about them. Again, that doesn’t mean you should ignore the other options that exist as you never know which one will become the next big thing and they have a lot to offer.

## A Little Preemptive House Cleaning

* I know that many people consider React a library and not a framework and I understand why. For the sake of this post, I will refer to it as a framework and I hope you understand why in return!
* I have been using Angular in both a professional and personal setting for 5 years now so my knowledge of Angular goes deep and I am admittedly a little biased.
* I have the least amount of experience with React, but I feel I understand the problem it solves and the power it possesses.

## Frameworks Should Speed Development, Not Hinder It

Let’s start off by getting this out of the way; REGARDLESS of what I say here, you should ALWAYS consider your own comfort level with a framework when making your decision on which to use. If you are contributing to a project that is already under development or integrating with another, you should also consider which framework is already being used and what kind of mess it would make to use another. Just because you are “Team React” doesn’t mean it makes sense to add React to an Angular or Vue project, etc. Frameworks are supposed to be a tool you reach for to speed up the development process and allow for additions of certain features with minimal time spent writing code. Don’t disrupt the flow and bundle size of a project because you like one framework over another!

You should also consider your comfort level with a framework and the comfort level of any other contributors before you select it for a project. Maybe you REALLY want to learn Vue, but the project has a somewhat tight deadline and you haven’t familiarized yourself with Vue yet. If this is the case, then don’t choose Vue! Choose something you are familiar with so you make your deadline. If you are starting a personal project or working on something with no real deadline, then THIS is the time to experiment with something new or base your decision off of other variables. We as developers have a tendency to lose sight of what the priority is and, instead, think about are own preferences and curiosities. Don’t do this!

## At a Glance, One is Not Better Than Another

Without a specific criterion to judge the main three JavaScript frameworks against, not a single one of them is really any better than any other. All three have large, extensive feature sets that include:
* easy ways to accomplish server-side rendering
* easy building of single-page applications
* routing
* state management
* simple and utilitarian templating
* CLI tools
* large communities for support and community-driven plugins
* good documentation
* performance optimization
<br>
<br>

Sure, you will find blog posts with graphics talking about how one framework out-performs another. I believe that any actual performance difference is negligible and the factor that will have the greatest impact is the implementation by the developer using the framework. You will find communities of users singing the praises of one while the bash another. Ignore them! I believe that humans have a tendency to defend their choice and lash out at the other options to validate their own feelings or decisions. A great example of this is how, before I became a video game collector, I bashed Xbox and sang the praises of the PlayStation. I owned each PlayStation, so I was ignorantly and blindly lashing out at Microsoft’s offerings. Once I deemed myself a collector and acquired the three models of Xbox, I quickly learned that they are great consoles too and I was missing out. That said, now that I am familiar with the differences between the Xbox and PlayStation, I feel that they have small differences that make them a better choice in certain people or situations. The same goes for the “big 3” frameworks and I will elaborate.

## Caution: Opinions About React, Angular, & Vue Ahead!


