Gone are the days of simply buying a new game with a specific game publisher logo on the box and knowing you will enjoy the game when you get home. Since the addition of storage and internet connectivity to game consoles occurred, buying a AAA game has become more of a crapshoot. Games will often launch in an incomplete state needing patches for bug fixes and feature adds down the road. Sometimes a game launches with the bare minimum feature set and asks the player to open their wallet again to unlock more features or items. Any way you look at it, AAA games have become a bit of a nasty business in 2019.
So am I proposing you never buy a AAA game again? That would be insane! Instead, I’ll cover some of my thoughts toward buying AAA titles, refraining from buying into any pre-launch hype, and navigating the landscape of big game publishers.

## EA Ain‘t What They Used to Be

Let’s just hit this one head on! EA used to be one of my favorite publishers and developers. I remember first seeing their logo when starting up John Madden Football ‘92 for the Sega Genesis. After that initial encounter, I associated the EA logo with quality games as the logo appeared on Desert Strike: Return to the Gulf, Rampart, Marble Madness, Road Rash, the best sports titles, and many other games. While this is about the time in gaming I recall seeing the EA logo, they were actually releasing big title all the way back to the early ’80s on the Apple II, C64, Atari, and more. EA left an impression on me at a young age and become a publisher and developer that I and many others trusted.

Throughout the rest of the ‘90s and into the 2000s, EA became best known for their sports titles. They still had their hand in many other great games from other genres, but sports games seemed to be where they shined. I’m not entirely sure when their “EA Sports. It’s in the game.” marketing campaign started, but I feel that anyone old enough to remember that slogan knows that it was all over TV ads and in the intro of their games for quite a while.

Every gamer that enjoys football games knows that the Madden series is hands down the best and longest running football game series there is. This is partly due to the fact that in December 2004, EA signed their first exclusivity deal with the NFL and its player union making it the only series able to use official team names, logos, and player names. You might think “well, at least this power is in good hands”, but I would argue that this killed off the competition and gave EA too much power. How was any other developer or publisher to compete? Lack of competition usually winds up creating a lack of innovation, and while the Madden series continued to improve for several years, it eventually became nothing more than a roster change from year to year. Who knows where football games could be if there was competition to drive innovation all these years? This was the first thing EA did that left a bad taste in my mouth.

Here is a list of exclusive deals EA has with other companies, organizations, & franchises:

- Arena Football League (2005—2009)
- ESPN (2005—present)
- English Premier League (1998—present)
- Bundesliga (1998—present)
- NASCAR (2004—2009)
- NCAA (2006—2011)
- NFL and NFLPA (2005—present)
- Porsche (2000—2016)
- Def Jam (2003—2007)
- Star Wars (2013—present)
- The Simpsons (2005—present)

(source: <a href="https://crappygames.miraheze.org/wiki/Electronic_Arts" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">https://crappygames.miraheze.org/wiki/Electronic_Arts</a>)

If it seems that EA sought to dominate by throwing money around, the drama doesn’t stop at just landing these kinds of exclusive deals. Oh no, EA acquired and/or shut down several other developers and publishers too, many of which were loved by many. You can also find a full list of those in the link above, but just to list a few that really irked me:

- BioWare
- DICE
- Westwood
- Pandemic
- PopCap
- Criterion
- Origin
- Visceral
  <br><br>

When presented with this evidence, you really start to see that EA has become more and more interested in dominating the market by spending money to get exclusivity and shutting down the competition. Greed has continued to run the company for years with the list of offense growing longer each month. As internet connectivity on consoles became widespread with the 7th generation of consoles (PS3, XBOX 360), EA released more and more DLC and placed micro-transactions into their games. This has caused outrage among gamers for years and seems to get worse as time goes on.

In recent years, EA has had <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWarsBattlefront/comments/7cff0b/seriously_i_paid_80_to_have_vader_locked/dppum98/" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">the most hated comment on Reddit</a>, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumerist" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">been voted the worst company in America 2012 & 2013</a>, mishandled the Star Wars franchise releasing 2 Battlefront games lacking in content and full of aggressive micro-transactions, and so much more. Most recently, they released Battlefield 2 and Anthem to underwhelming response, in a seemingly unfinished state, and like always, full or ridiculous micro-transactions.

Now, when I hear about a new game coming out that seems interesting, the first thing I do is see if EA is involved. If they are, I pass on the game. I wait until it has been out long enough for the price to drop. This gives me time to take in some reviews and asses whether it is too full or micro-transactions, too buggy, or even worth my time. I have grown to hate EA and wish they will continue to drop the ball eventually resulting in their demise.

## Even the Loved Developers & Publishers Sometimes Drop the Ball

I think calling EA out as an example of a Publisher to avoid or, at least, one to take caution with is low hanging fruit. Most of the gamers out there are fully aware of EA’s crimes and share at least some hatred for them. I shared my feelings on EA because it is relevant to the topic.

Some of the most beloved developers and publishers drop the ball in ways too. Rockstar is my example for this scenario. With series like GTA, Red Dead, Midnight Club, Max Payne, Manhunt, & Bully, it is easy to see why Rockstar is one of the best there is in gaming. Remember how bad GTA V’s online experience was for way too long? How about RDR 2’s online experience being called “beta” for way too long and being a bit of a shit-show? Even the best publishers are not immune to the occasional misstep.

I try to keep these types of things in mind when buying a new game. Regarding GTA and RDR 2, I didn’t buy them for their online experiences. I am way more interested in their single-player campaigns and that is why I have forked over my \$60 for each of those titles. I feel like if you give some thought to why you are buying a certain game, it can prevent you from being disappointed as often.

## Greed Has Taken Over & Companies are Out of Touch

Let’s look at another huge game franchise for some more examples to support my points. Star Wars: Battlefront II was the disaster that should have woken up the industry a little. Let’s review what happened after this game launched.

- <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinmurnane/2017/10/24/electronic-arts-where-video-game-development-studios-go-to-die/#495143d76462" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">1 month before BF2 launched, EA closed another beloved studio, Visceral Games</a>
- <a href="https://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2017-11-17-ea-suspends-micro-transactions-in-star-wars-battlefront-ii-hours-before-game-launch" target="\_blank" rel="external noopener">EA suspended microtransactions in BF2 after reviewer backlash & multiple governments question legality of loot boxes</a>
- <a href="https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-43906306" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">Belgium declares loot boxes to be illegal under gambling laws</a>
- <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWarsBattlefront/comments/7cff0b/seriously_i_paid_80_to_have_vader_locked/dppum98/" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">EA posts tone deaf comment on Reddit that becomes most downvoted comment in history</a>
- <a href="https://www.polygon.com/2018/2/13/17007830/hawaii-loot-crate-laws-ea-star-wars-battlefront-2" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">Hawaii proposes bill to consider loot boxes a form of gambling and prohibit sale of games with loot boxes for people under 21</a>
- <a href="https://www.polygon.com/2018/4/13/17233648/star-wars-battlefront-2-crystals-currency-microtransactions" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">EA brings back microtransactions regardless of backlash</a>
- <a href="https://www.metacritic.com/game/playstation-4/star-wars-battlefront-ii" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">BF2 which should have been an easy hit for EA ends up with a 68 on Metacritic</a>
- <a href="https://www.change.org/p/lucasfilm-revoke-ea-s-star-wars-license" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">thousands of gamers petition to have EA's exclusivity over the Star Wars franchise to be revoked</a>
  <br><br>

BF2 sold much less than EA anticipated. Gamers seemed to finally be saying “Enough is enough”. The predatory nature of loot boxes in BF2 was so bad that a global discussion began over the legality of loot boxes. EA executives kept making very out-of-touch remarks about how games cost too much to make and gamers are paying a dollar or 2 an hour to enjoy great games and should be happy about spending so little for that kind of entertainment. From the outside, it really seemed like the whole ordeal was such a disaster that EA was going to have no choice but change their ways. A few months ago Anthem was released by EA in an unfinished state with a ridiculous pricing structure, too many microtransactions, and poor reviews. EA learned nothing.

Blizzard made a decision to release the next Diablo game, Diablo Immortal, as a mobile game full of microtransactions. The announcement was made at BlizzCon 2018 and was immediately booed by the crowd. The presenters responded by saying “Do you guys not have phones?” How unbelievably tone-deaf is this comment? PC and console gamers don’t usually care too much about mobile games. Diablo fans have been waiting for years to hear about the next Diablo game. How on earth could Blizzard be so out of touch? I don‘t believe they really are THAT out of touch. I believe they knew it wouldn‘t be received well from their hardcore fans, but they want some of that mobile gaming pie so badly that they don‘t care. Greed at its finest. They were willing to alienate their fans to make an easy buck.

Greed in the video game industry shows itself in other ways too. Regardless of the fact that the video game industry continues to grow and makes more money than any other entertainment-focused industry, game developments studios keep closing and developers are being laid off left and right. In recent history, these companies have closed:

- Motiga (75 employees)
- Visceral (at least 80 employees)
- Telltale Games (at least 275 employees)
- Boss Key Productions (about 60 employees)
- Runic
- Carbine
- The Bartlet Jones Supernatural Detective Agency
- Wargaming Seattle (about 150 employees)
- Capcom Vancouver (158 employees)
- Gazillion Entertainment (about 200 employees)
  <br><br>

More recently, Activision Blizzard and EA’s Firemonkey’s Studio went through a round of layoffs. Game publishers are selling more, making more, but continue to restructure and lay-off people to make another buck. Meanwhile, there are reports of game developers working insane amounts of hours under colossal pressure. Oh, how the mighty dollar makes all the decisions for these companies. Don‘t get me wrong, the point of having a business is to make money. At a certain point, these companies crossed over the border of what can be considered ethical in so many ways just to maximize their profit and make the shareholders happier.

## Is \$60 Still Enough for a AAA Game?
