Finding good local multi-player games has become an increasingly difficult task. There is more of a focus on online multi-player in modern games because that makes it easier for game developers to nickel and dime us with micro-transactions and DLC. Being a father, a husband, and someone who likes to entertain guests at my home, I have searched far and wide for local multi-player games and have many in my collection with a wish list of games to buy as well. I just thought it could be helpful to someone if I shared my findings as it hasn’t been an easy task gathering this kind of data.

There will be mistakes! It can sometimes be difficult to find good information on a game, especially if it isn’t a popular game. If I have played the local multi-player mode of a game listed below, I will give it a rating. A lot of games I knew of with local multi-player are available on multiple platforms when I looked up the game. It is safe to assume that just because a game has 4 player modes on one platform doesn’t mean it necessarily has that on all available platforms. Also, some games have a four player mode available via a hack or glitch. I will not be listing those games either as the goal is to create lists of easily accessible four player games for all to enjoy!

Note that to play four players and any title listed for the PS2, you must have the Multi-Tap.

## Older Consoles With Multi-Player Adapters

The NES, SNES, and Sega Genesis/Mega Drive all had adapters that allowed for more than 2 controllers to be connected at once along with a small list of games that utilized that functionality. Rather than list all the games that take advantage of those adapters, I will provide some links for further reading on those if you are interested.

* NES Four Score
  * <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NES_Four_Score" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NES_Four_Score</a>
* SNES Super Multitap
  * <a href="https://nintendo.fandom.com/wiki/Super_Multitap" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">https://nintendo.fandom.com/wiki/Super_Multitap</a>
* Genesis/Mega Drive and Sega CD
  * <a href="https://segaretro.org/4_Way_Play" target="_blank" rel="external noopener">https://segaretro.org/4_Way_Play</a>

## Series That Always Have 4 Player Modes

Some series out there always (or at least almost always) have four player modes. Instead of listing each individual title, I am just going to list the series. Basically, if you pick up a game from any of these series, it is more than likely going to have a local four player mode.

* Smash Bros
* Mario Kart (except for the SNES version)
* Mario Party
* Worms
* Bomberman

## Hack 'n Slash / Top Down Action

<table class="blog-table">
  <tr>
    <th>Game</th>
    <th>Platforms</th>
    <th>Rating</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Alienation</td>
    <td>PS4</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.5</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Champions of Norrath</td>
    <td>PS2</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Diablo 3</td>
    <td>PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Switch, PC, Mac</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">4.7</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Divinity: Original Sin</td>
    <td>PS4, Xbox One, PC, Mac, Linux</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.9</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Divinity: Original Sin 2</td>
    <td>PS4, Xbox One, PC, Mac</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Dungeon Hunter: Alliance</td>
    <td>PS3, Mac</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.6</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Gauntlet: Slayer Edition</td>
    <td>PS4, PC</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.8</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Helldivers</td>
    <td>PS3, PS4, PC</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.5</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris</td>
    <td>PS4, Xbox One</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Magicka</td>
    <td>PC</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Magicka 2</td>
    <td>PS4, PC, Mac, Linux</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.8</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Marvel: Ultimate Alliance</td>
    <td>PS2, PS3, PS4, Xbox, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii, PC</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">4.2</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2</td>
    <td>PS2, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii, PC</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Nine Parchments</td>
    <td>PS4, Xbox One, Switch, PC</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center">3.6</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>X-Men Legends</td>
    <td>PS2, Xbox, GameCube</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>X-Men Legends 2</td>
    <td>PS2, Xbox, GameCube</td>
    <td class="bold-yellow center"></td>
  </tr>
</table>