So you want to buy a new console for your collection? That’s cool, but do you know which version of that console you want? Do you know what the differences are between the various models and revisions?

Buying a new console always makes for an exciting day as a collector. It isn’t as simple an easy as finding the console you want at a decent price though. Many video game consoles have different models and revisions with different feature sets and strengths. Before you just go out and buy a new console, you should know which model or revision best suits your needs. Today I will try to provide some information on the more common consoles to help you make those decisions. Note that I will be focused on which models are best for playing games in the US.

If I pick up a new console that isn’t on this list I might circle back and add my new findings/research to it.

## Nintendo Entertainment System (NES)

The first console from Nintendo, the NES as it is so commonly known, only had two different models and is Nintendo's 8-bit home console offering. The differences are minimal other than their appearance.

- The front loader NES is the most iconic, most reliable, and has RCA/composite outputs along with the standard RF output.
- The top loader NES came later. It is rarer, less reliable, and only sports the RF output which makes it a little more difficult to play on modern TVs.
<br><br>

Basically, you are better off buying the front loader if your intention is to play NES games. The top loader is collectible, though, so if you are a collector you might consider getting a top loader as well.

## Sega Master System

The Sega Master System was Sega’s 8-bit console intended to compete with the NES. In the US, we had two main models available with a fair amount of differences to note.

- The Master System Mark III (model 1) was the first model released. It was a bit larger than the other model due in part to the fact it included a game card reader along with the standard cartridge slot. It also has RGB video output without modification.
- The Master System II was a cost-reduced version released later that was smaller but lacks the card reader slot. It does not output RGB without modification, is not compatible with the 3D Sega Scope Glasses, and has compatibility issues with a few Master System cartridge games. The Master System II also has a door that slides closed over the game cartridge slot. This door wears out easily and is likely to break.
<br><br>

If you want to get the full Master System experience and/or have the best video output quality, then the Mark III (model 1) is definitely the way to go. The only real reason to pick up the Master System II, other than for the sake of collecting, is to have a Master System take up less space on your shelves.

## Sega Genesis

The Sega Genesis (known as the Mega Drive outside of the US) was Sega's 16-bit home console and had four different models with some fairly substantial differences to note. Which model is best for you highly depends on what you are after.

- The model 1 has the best quality audio output. It allows for playing Master System games with the use of the Power Base Converter and 32X and Sega CD games with the addition of the necessary add-ons. The Sega CD add-on that is meant for the model 1 is harder to find and more pricey, but it can be used with the Sega CD model 2 and will just hang off the edges of the Sega CD model 2’s base a bit. It can also output RGB without modification allowing for a better picture when connected with a component or SCART cable to an upscaler.
- The model 2 is smaller and doesn’t have the HD audio output of the model 1, but still sounds fairly good. It can also be used with the Power Base Converter, 32X, and Sega CD add-ons like the model 1 although the Power Base Converter has to be slightly modified to fit. Like the model 1, the model 2 outputs RGB without modification but has a slightly smaller output adapter so make sure you get the correct cable.
- The model 3 Genesis is a lot rarer than the other models, but that comes at a cost. It is much smaller, less reliable, does not output RGB without modification, and will not connect with ANY of the Genesis add-ons so Genesis games are all you will play with the model 3. That being said, it also isn’t compatible with Genesis games containing a DSP chip so your selection of Genesis games will even be a little restricted.
- The CDX is a small version of the Genesis that comes with a cartridge slot for Genesis games and a disc drive for Sega CD games built in. Unfortunately, it will not connect to the Power Base Converter or 32X add-ons, although I have seen where someone has modded a CDX to work with the 32X before. These are highly collectible and expensive compared to the other models, but they are less reliable.
<br><br>

If you just want to play Genesis games, any of these models will work but I recommend the model 1 or model 2 for reliable reasons. If you are interested in collecting the Genesis add-ons then the model 1 and model 2 are your only choices, although if you aren’t interested in the 32X then the CDX is a fair option because it has the Sega CD functionality built in. The CDX is the most valuable and collectible if that is what you are after.

## Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES)